# Image-Colorization

Abstract: Grayscale images are computationally inexpensive to obtain, offer pixel by pixel intensity data and are still frequently used in low end security systems and many other applications where low compression data streaming is required. This topology is often used to ensure that the data acquisition is low power, inexpensive, and reliable. However, in many cases, feature loss occurs due to a lack of color in the images. Robustly estimating the color of grayscale images based on a colorized training set is a valuable tool to have for several applications which include restoring old photographs or interpreting grayscale footage. This challenge cannot be solved through a direct color mapping process since two images with an identical intensity may not have the same ground truth hue. A learning model must be created to predict the corresponding pixel by pixel color values of grayscale images based on a training set of color and their respective gray scale images. Our project quantitatively determines the most probable colors of images extracted from social media based on a trained convolutional neural network model we will develop. We will then analyze performance of our classifier and compare our results with the true colorized images to inspect the value of this process.

Project details can be found at http://www.ee.columbia.edu/~cylin/course/bigdata/projects/ and searching for "Image Colorization Using Convolutional Neural Networks"

The report and paper can be found at http://systemg.research.ibm.com/bigdata/reports/201412/report-201612-52.pdf

Image Colorization contains the following files 

vgg16_mod.py - The model for the CNN that is trained for image colorization. 

preprocessing.m - handles the reading of the image set and conversion to the CIELAB colorspace before outputting the LAB channels and binned color vectors as the feature and class datasets.

image_color_elephas.py - loads and stores the .mat files into the hdf5 big data format. loads the CNN model and the Elephas module is then used to convert the hdf5 data to RDD format, which is then trained on to generate weights.


colorize.py - loads the feature vectors of our test set which is then colorized accordingly based on our previously generated weights and CNN model. The image is then exported in .mat format to be displayed using the visualization script. 

visualization.m - will unpack the CIELAB .mat file generated by the Python colorization script and output the colorized image in standard JPEG format.
